---
title: No one wants to go to the moon
subtitle: 
tags: [space, tourism, space_tourism]
---

Today, I had this hypothetical pop into my head while thinking about space
tourism.

Imagine that you could go online right now, and buy a ticket to go to the moon.
The ticket in its entirety costs $100USD, and there are no other significant
costs associated with travelling to the rocket. If you want, you can imagine
that the company will bring a rocket to your backyard. There are no
environmental concerns or safety risks associated with the trip, and it will
only take 8 hours of your time, so you can easily fit it into your schedule on a
weekend.

The question is, how many times would you take the trip? Obviously, everyone I
have ever known or will ever know would take the trip at least once. However, I
can't come up with any conceivable reason why a normal person would go more than
ten times. Of course, there are a certain subset of space fanatics who might
take the trip every single day that they could, becaues they love the idea of
being off-world. Perhaps there would be researchers who would like to go to the
moon to do research - even then, I'm not sure there is actually much to learn
from being on the moon. The moon _really is_ a boring place. It is an object in
the sky that is essentially defined by having nothing going on with it. Once
you've taken a sufficient number of rock samples, you've essentially learned
everything there is to learn about what the moon is.

I think one response might be to wonder about moon mining operations, i.e. there
are energy-rich ores on the moon, and it could be cost-efficient compared to the
ticket cost to mine those ores and bring them back to Earth. Of course, all this
does is highlight the absurdity of the hypothetical - a ticket to the moon will
never cost as little as $100. We would be lucky to get it below a cost of
$10,000. There would always be safety risks, and a reasonable space tourism
industry would likely incur massive environmental damage. Furthermore, the
fastest manned flight to the moon (Apollo 8) took 69 hours, so you would have to
take an entire week off of work just to get there and back.

I know this likely won't convince anyone who is already space-tourism-pilled. I
guess I just want a blog article to point to in the rare case I get into this
argument, so I have a pre-prepared argument.
