---
title: Why is the video game industry like this? [WIP]
subtitle: A complete randos opinion (but hey it's my website so suck it)
tags: [gamedev, industry]
---

Why is the video game industry like this? Why are companies releasing games in a
broken state? Just listing some of the blunders this year: we had Forspoken, a
game that consistently undercuts it's own gameplay and world with annoying
quips; The Last of Us Part 1 (PC), which was completely broken upon release;
Redfall, a game that represents the worst of the industry by both being buggy
AND boring (and not to mention a fall from grace for Arkane!); and most recently
Gollum, which seems even worse then everything else in this list.

It all seems incomprehensible, considering the reasons that we might expect
quality games from these studios. All of these games cost 50$+, so it's not as
if they're cheap games being blown up by the media. They're made by studios with
100+ employees and often with much more help coming from other studios, so
they're not the products of overpriced games made by a small number of
delusional people; that is, they are good representations of what the industry
has to offer. These studios have solid reasons to try to maintain their
reputation with customers and publishers. A game that gets bad reviews and
doesn't sell well doesn't make money for anyone.

Yet, these games are bad, often incredibly so. In addition developers seem to
_know_ that they're bad. Redfall had an embargo on reviews which ended at 11pm,
3 hours after the release in North America (est). This is purposefully putting
the time reviews can come out after the time gamers would play it, to try and
make sales before anyone learns better. The studio clearly knew the game was
bad, yet they didn't (or couldn't) delay the launch date.

All of these factors lead me to believe that something is _structurally_ wrong
with the way videogames are funded and produced. Firstly, it is well-known that
video games have a long tail, that is that the vast majority of profit is made
by an extremely small number of games each year. This is due to the fact that
games have to compete for consumers time/attention, a limited resource that
cannot be expanded. If someone only has time to play 5 large video games in a
year, then only 5 video games can become popular that
year<a href="#[1]"><sup>[1]</sup></a> because consumers naturally gravitate
towards playing the same games. Even if the demand for video games increases by
a factor of 10 people will still use popularity as a proxy for quality, causing
the money to unnaturally accumulate in an extremely small number of hands.

This has lead to the strategy of "publishing", similar to record labels in
music. A publisher divides their investments across several different studios,
hoping that atleast one of those studios will produce a top 5 game and can
recoup the entire sum invesment. This is a smart strategy, and there's nothing
wrong with it in theory.

The problem is the dynamics that these rules set up. Because publishers are the
source of capital, they can unilaterally demand a whole host of benefits from
the studios. T

---

<a id="[1]">[1]</a> Technically we can see it more as 5 abstract units of
attention, and the top 5 games get 90% of those attention-units, while the rest
fight for scraps.
